1.1	What are hardware and software?
Hardware is the computer physical components and they used (processed) by the software programs which are invisible to tell the computer what to do by using the hardware components.
1.2	List Five Majors hardware components of a computer?
CPU, Memory(RAM), Output devices(monitors and printers), Storage devices(USB and Hard Disk), Input devices(mouse and keyboard).
1.3	What does the acronym CPU stands for?
Central Processing Unit.
1.4	What unit is used to measure CPU speed?
Hertz
1.5	What is a  bit and what is a byte?
A byte is the minimum storage unit in the computer used to store data and programs in the memory, one byte contains 8 bit and they are contains of 0s and 1s values.
1.6	What is memory for? What does RAM stands for? Why is memory called RAM?
Memory can be considered as the work area for the computer, It is a lace to do a specific process on a data before executing the processed data by the CPU. RAM or random access memory is called that because the data can be reached in the memory by random, The memory looks like a container this container splits into same size rooms every room contain an “address” like a number and it’s placed in order however we can access any room despite what the order is. So in this example you can enter room 3 before entering room 1 or 2.
1.7	What unit is used to measure memory size?
Bytes (GB).
1.8	What unit is used to measure disk size?
Bytes(GB).
1.9	What is the primary difference between memory and storage device?
Memory is volatile while the storage device is the opposite case around.
1.10	What language does the CPU understands? Machine language.
1.11	What is assembly language? 
It is a language that made to make the programming process easier, it’s called assembly    as it collects the machine code for example that will add to the word (add). 
1.12	What is assembler? 
It is the program that used to translate assembly language into machine language so that the CPU can understand it.
1.13	What is high level language ?
platform independent, which means that you can write a program in a high level language and run it in different types of machine.
1.14	What is a source program?
It’s the code that have been written in high level language.
1.15	What is interpreter?
Is the program that translates the source code into machine code but the process done in many steps as it translates one sentence at a time.
1.16	What is a compiler?
It is a translator of source code into machine code but the whole process done as one step .
1.17	What is difference between an interpreted language and compiled language?
There is no difference at the result but the interpreted language Is the program that translates the source code into machine code but the process done in many steps as it translates one sentence at a time, then compiled used compiler It is a translator of source code into machine code but the whole process done as one step.
1.18	What is an operating System? list some popular operating systems?
OS is the most important program runs on a computer, The OS manages and controls a computer activities, Mac OS, Microsoft windows OS, Linux.
1.19	What are the major responsibilities of an operating system?
1)	Control and monitor system activity to perform basic tasks such as recognizing input from keyboard, send output to monitor, 2)Allocate and assign system resource as OS is responsible for determining what computer resources are needed as CPU time , memory space and so on, 3)scheduling operations as OS is responsible or schedule activities to make efficient   use of system resources.
1.20	What are  multiprogramming, multithreading and multiprocessing?
Multiprogramming:  allow multiple programs to run stimulansoly  by sharing CPU ex:   enables you to use word (Microsoft word) to edit smth and save it while downloading smth from the browser. 
Multithreading: allows a single program to execute multiple tasks at the same time ex: word processor (save and edit at the same time).
Multiprocessing: (Parallel processing) use two or more processors together to perform substances.
